cookbook for mantle convection in annulus after van der Wiel (#5796)
geodynamics/aspect: cookbooks/mantle_convection_with_continents_in_annulus/doc/mantle_convection_in_annulus.md

<img src="viscosity.*" width="90%" />

the initial viscosity field.
```

```{figure-md} fig:init_compositions
<img src="continents.*" width="90%" />

The initial position of the three continents.
```

```{figure-md} fig:init_temperature
<img src="temperature.*" width="90%" />

The initial temperature field.
```

Similar to {cite:t}`ulvrova:etal:2019`, we use viscous rafts as `continents' to aid with
modelling one-sided subduction systems. We use three continents of
5000, 5000 and 3000 km length, covering roughly 30% of the model
surface. To avoid subduction of the continents, we assign the viscous
rafts a reference density of 2916 kg/m3, which corresponds to a 400
kg/m3 density contrast with the reference mantle density.
Furthermore, to avoid deformation of the continents, we assign
them a viscosity that equals the maximum cut-off viscosity in the model,
i.e. 6e24 Pa s. We also configure three subduction zones
in the initial set-up to seed the model with initial negative
buoyancy.

As the goal of the publication is to investigate
how average slab sinking rates relate to the vigour of mantle convection and mixing,
various rheologies are considered in the lower mantle, as

> show in {numref}`fig:visc-profiles`.

Reviewer: as shown in {numref} etc.

We will focus on the 'R' (reference) profile in this cookbook (green line).

```{figure-md} fig:visc-profiles
<img src="viscosity_profiles.*" width="90%" />

Radial viscosity profiles for the three models discussed in the original
publication (solid lines)
compared to viscosity profiles as used in other studies.
See original publication for the references corresponding to the
dashed lines.
```

After 500 Myr we see multiple subductions taking place as well as
many plumes/upwellings, as shown in {numref}`fig:evolution`

```{figure-md} fig:evolution
<img src="evolution.*" width="90%" />

Results of the reference model (R) after 500 Ma of mantle convection simulation. Snapshots of the model at t = 500 Ma are shown for the viscosity (a) and
temperature (b) within the modelled domain, showing five slabs actively subducting below the continents (pink). c Solid lines indicate average surface velocity (blue)

> and mobility ratio M (Tackley, 2000) (red) of model R as well as their dashed time-averages Vsurf=2.1 cm/a and M = 2.218. d Radial velocity of all tracers defined as

Reviewer: Perhaps a short phrase describing what the mobility ratio represents compared to the surface velocity (v_rms (surf)/ v_rms (whole mantle)) in case someone wondered what that specific expression was and looked it up in Tackley 2000 (should that be a bib citation?).

slabs plotted at their position in the model where blue indicates sinking slabs and red slowly rising. Shown tracers are 300 K colder than the radial averaged
temperature at similar depth and automatically obtained (see methods section of the publication).

> e 2D-histogram showing the tracer depth vs the radial velocity in 25 km by 2 mm/a bins. The

Reviewer: The radial velocity in the plot looks like a rather narrow array of values than the min and max bounds of your x-axis. Would it be appropriate to scale those to see more of what's happening in that plot? Also I was curious what does this sub-plot show in a conceptual way (i.e. why do people look at plots like this).

Author: this plot is a screen capture of the paper. I cannot modify it...

them a viscosity that equals the maximum cut-off viscosity in the model,
i.e. 6e24 Pa s. We also configure three subduction zones
in the initial set-up to seed the model with initial negative
buoyancy.

As the goal of the publication is to investigate
how average slab sinking rates relate to the vigour of mantle convection and mixing,
various rheologies are considered in the lower mantle, as
shown in {numref}`fig:visc-profiles`.
We will focus on the 'R' (reference) profile in this cookbook (green line).

```{figure-md} fig:visc-profiles
<img src="viscosity_profiles.*" width="90%" />

Radial viscosity profiles for the three models discussed in the original
publication (solid lines)
compared to viscosity profiles as used in other studies.
See original publication for the references corresponding to the
dashed lines.
```

After 500 Myr we see multiple subductions taking place as well as
many plumes/upwellings, as shown in {numref}`fig:evolution`

```{figure-md} fig:evolution
<img src="evolution.*" width="90%" />

Results of the reference model (R) after 500 Ma of mantle convection simulation. Snapshots of the model at t = 500 Ma are shown for the viscosity (a) and

> temperature (b) within the modelled domain, showing five slabs actively subducting below the continents (pink). c Solid lines indicate average surface velocity (blue)

Reviewer 2: What does the `c` before `Solid lines` mean? Is this a reference to a panel? Should it then be `(c)`?

and mobility M (red) of model R as well as their dashed time-averages Vsurf=2.1 cm/a and M = 2.218. 
Mobility is defined as the ratio of rms surface velocity to rms velocity averaged over the entire 3D domain{cite:t}`tackley:2000`.

> d Radial velocity of all tracers defined as

Reviewer 2: Like this?
```suggestion
(d) Radial velocity of all tracers defined as
```

slabs plotted at their position in the model where blue indicates sinking slabs and red slowly rising. Shown tracers are 300 K colder than the radial averaged
temperature at similar depth and automatically obtained (see methods section of the publication).

> e 2D-histogram showing the tracer depth vs the radial velocity in 25 km by 2 mm/a bins. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 2D-histogram shows the tracer depth vs the radial velocity in 25 km by 2 mm/a bins. The
```

Author: actually it should be (e).
